.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.TH IBV_EXP_PREFETCH_MR 3 2013-08-06 libibverbs "Libibverbs Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ibv_exp_prefetch_mr \- prefetch pages of an on-demand paging memory region
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <infiniband/verbs.h>
.sp
.BI "int " "ibv_exp_prefetch_mr"(
.BI "                     struct ibv_mr " "*mr" ", struct ibv_exp_prefetch_attr " "*attr");
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ibv_exp_prefetch_mr()
requests the driver to prefetch a given range of pages and map them for access from the HCA.
The function is applicable to MRs that were registered as ODP, i.e. with the
experimental access flag
.B IBV_EXP_ACCESS_ON_DEMAND.
.PP
.I mr
- the memory region containing the area that the driver is requested to prefetch.
.PP
.I attr
- a structure containing the input arguments to the function. It is defined as:
.PP
.nf
struct ibv_exp_prefetch_attr {
.in +8
	uint32_t flags;	        /* Use enum ibv_exp_prefetch_flags in verbs_exp.h */
	void *addr;                 /* Address of the area to prefetch */
	size_t length;              /* Length of the area to prefetch */
	uint32_t comp_mask;         /* Use enum ibv_exp_prefetch_attr_comp_mask in verbs_exp.h */
.in -8
};
.fi
.PP
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B ibv_exp_prefetch_mr()
returns 0 when the call was successful. Otherwise returns an error code:
.PP
.in +2
.B ENOSYS
libibverbs or provider driver doesn't support the prefetching verb.
.PP
.in +2
.B EFAULT
when the range requested is out of the memory region bounds, or when
parts of it are not part of the process address space.
.PP
.in +2
.B EINVAL
when the MR is invalid.
.SH "NOTES"
This function is considered as a hint to the driver. The actual prefetch is
done on 'best effort' policy, meaning that the driver may decide to ignore
the fetch. In such case the call is considered successful, although no prefetch
was done.
.PP
This function is an experimental verbs extensions supported only by the
Mellanox OFED driver collection. It will be deprecated in the future once
a stable API is added to the upstream version of libibverbs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ibv_exp_reg_mr (3)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.TP
Haggai Eran <haggaie@mellanox.com>
